CSS @import docs for supports() (#26917)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/@import/index.md

{{CSSRef}}

> The **`@import`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) [at-rule](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/At-rule) is used to import style rules from other valid stylesheets. An `@import` rule _must_ be defined at the top of stylesheet, before any other at-rule (except [@charset](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@charset) and [@layer](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@layer)) and style declaration, or it will be ignored.

Author: Good catch. Feel free to make suggestions - it takes about the same time as the comment.
```suggestion
The **`@import`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) [at-rule](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/At-rule) is used to import style rules from other valid stylesheets.
An `@import` rule _must_ be defined at the top of the stylesheet, before any other at-rule (except [@charset](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@charset) and [@layer](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@layer)) and style declarations, or it will be ignored.
```

@import url layer;
@import url layer(layer-name);
@import url layer(layer-name) list-of-media-queries;

> @import url supports(import-condition);
> @import url supports(import-condition) list-of-media-queries;
> @import url layer(layer-name) supports(import-condition) list-of-media-queries;

Author: ```suggestion
@import url supports(supports-condition);
@import url list-of-media-queries;
@import url supports(supports-condition) list-of-media-queries;
@import url layer(layer-name) supports(supports-condition) list-of-media-queries;
```

> @import url layer(layer-name) supports(import-condition) list-of-media-queries;

Author: Fixed using supports-condition and methodical list.

  - : Is a comma-separated list of [media queries](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Media_Queries/Using_media_queries), which specify the media-dependent conditions for applying the CSS rules defined in the linked URL. If the browser does not support any of these queries, it does not load the linked resource.
- _layer-name_
  - : Is the name of a [cascade layer](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@layer) into which the contents of the linked resource are imported.

> - _import-condition_

Author: THanks.

```suggestion
- _supports-condition_
```

  - : Indicates the feature(s) that the browser must support in order for the stylesheet to be imported.

>     If the browser does not support any of the indicated features, it may not fetch the linked stylesheet, and even if downloaded through some other path, will not load it.

Author: Yes, or they can look below at the simple examples. Thank you for the advice - I'm getting tired, so that makes it much easier.

```suggestion
    If the browser does not conform to the conditions specified in the _supports-condition_, it may not fetch the linked stylesheet, and even if downloaded through some other path, will not load it.
```

>     The syntax of `supports()` is almost identical to that described in {{CSSxRef("@supports")}}, and that topic can be used as a more complete reference.

Author: I think this is working, it's just that Yari only builds pages for the page you touch, and I didn't touch @supports.

## Description

Imported rules must come before all other types of rules, except {{CSSxRef("@charset")}} rules and layer creating [`@layer`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@layer) statements. The `@import` rule is not a [nested statement](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Syntax#nested_statements). Therefore, it cannot be used inside [conditional group at-rules](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/At-rule#conditional_group_rules).

So that {{glossary("user agent", "user agents")}} can avoid retrieving resources for unsupported media types, authors may specify media-dependent import conditions. These conditional imports specify comma-separated [media queries](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Media_Queries/Using_media_queries) after the URL. In the absence of any media query, the import is not conditional on the media used. Specifying `all` for the `list-of-media-queries` has the same effect.

> Similarly, user agents can use the `supports()` function in an `@import` rule to only fetch resources if a particular feature or features are supported.

Reviewer: "if a particular feature or features are supported" -> how about "if a particular feature set is (or is not) supported".

Author: Yes, that looks good.
```suggestion
Similarly, user agents can use the `supports()` function in an `@import` at-rule to only fetch resources if a particular feature set is (or is not) supported.
```

The `@import` rules in the above examples show media-dependent conditions that will need to be true before the linked CSS rules are applied. So for instance, the last `@import` rule will load the `landscape.css` stylesheet only on a screen device in landscape orientation.

### Importing CSS rules conditional on feature support

```css
@import url("gridy.css") supports(display: grid) screen and (max-width: 400px);
@import url("flexy.css") supports(not (display: grid) and (display:flex) ) screen and (max-width: 400px);
```

The `@import` rules above illustrate how you might import a layout that uses a grid if `display: grid` is supported, and otherwise imports CSS that uses `display: flex`.

> While you can only have one `supports()` statement, you can combine any number of feature checks with `not`, `and`, `or`, as long as you wrap each condition to be tested in round brackets and further use brackets to indicate precedence.

Reviewer: " `and`, `or`" -> " `and`, and `or`" ?

"round brackets" -> "parentheses"?

Author: Them there modern word thingies.

```suggestion
While you can only have one `supports()` statement, you can combine any number of feature checks with `not`, `and`, and `or`, as long as you wrap each condition to be tested in parentheses.
You can also use parentheses to indicate precedence.
```

Note that if you just have a single declaration then you don't need to wrap it in additional brackets: this is shown in the first example above.

The examples above show support conditions using simple declaration syntax.

> You can also specify CSS functions in `supports()`, and it will evaluate "true" if they are supported and can be evaluated on the user-agent.

Reviewer: "evaluate "true"" -> "evaluate to `true`" ?

Author: ```suggestion
You can also specify CSS functions in `supports()`, and they will evaluate to `true` if they are supported and can be evaluated on the user-agent.
```
